%title Malcolm X after Mecca


= Malcolm X after Mecca=
=== Section 1 部分一 ===

<iframe frameborder='0' height='540' width='100%' src='http://min.us/mGLFM1iOI#1e'></iframe>

Original text:

===== Q===== 
Malcolm, on you trip abroad, you said you sensed a feeling of great brotherhood,
and that conceivably will be working toward integration in this country now, at
least this is what your reporter said, any comment on it?

===== A=====
I don't think I ever mentioned anything about working toward integration. If I recall, I pointed out 
that when I was at Mecca, making the pilgrimage, I spoke about the brotherhood that existed at all levels,
and among all people who were there on that hajj, who received the religion of islam. And I pointed out that
for what it had done, what the religion of Islam had done for those people over there, despite their
complextion differences, that it would probably do America well to study the religion of Islam and perhaps it could drive
some of the racism from this society as it has driven racism from the Muslim society.

===== Q=====
Is the current integration drive is aiming for this goal?

===== A=====
I cannot say the current integration drive is aimming fot this goal, because it has not realized the goal in any state,
they have not got integration here in New York city, you have worse integration problems here in the north than in the south.
So if you cannot bring about integration in New York city, as international, cosmopolitan, up to date as it supposed to be, you will never
get integration anywhere else in the country.

===== Q=====
Malcolm, have your experience with white skinned Muslims in Africa and Middle East made your feel that relation between negros and
white Non-Muslims any more possible?

===== A=====
When I was on the pilmgrige, I was in close contact with Muslims whose skin would in America be classified as white, and with
Muslims who themselves would be classified as white in America, but these particular Muslisms didnot call themselves white,
they looked upon themselves as human beings, as part of the human family, and therefore they look upon any other segments of 
human family as part of that same family. Now they have a different look, a different air, a different attitude, which if reflected
in the attitude of the men in America who calls themselves white. So I think if Islam has done that for them, perhaps
if the white man in America would study Islam, perhaps it can do the same thing for him.

===== Q=====
What a lot of people are interested in is that whether this experience had made you feel that your feelings have changed,
that the animosity that you expressed upon all white...

===== A=====
There is one thing I want to make clear, no matter how much respect, no matter how much recongnition whites show toward me, as
far as I am concerned, as long as that same respect and recongnition is not shown to every one of our people in this country, It doesn't
exist for me.

译文：
===== Q=====
Malcolm，你在国外时声称感受到了一种伟大的兄弟之情（在不同人种之间），并将会向着（黑人白人间的）融合努力，是这样的吗？

===== A=====
我从未声称我将努力促成融合，如果我记忆准确的话，我指出了当我在麦加朝圣的时候，我谈到了存在于各个层次上的，在所有皈依伊斯兰教朝圣者之间的
那种兄弟之情。我同时指出既然伊斯兰教在当地各个种族的人中做到了这一点，如果美国能学习一下伊斯兰教大概会有好处，或许伊斯兰教能
像在穆斯林社会中一样驱除美国社会的种族歧视。

===== Q=====
现在的融合主义运动是在向这个目标前进吧？

===== A=====
我不认为融合主义正在向这个目标前进，因为他们从未在任一个州实现这个目标。他们在纽约都没能实现融合。我们在北方存在比南方更严重的
融合问题。如果在纽约这样的本应是国际化的，开放的，现代化大都市都不能实现融合，那么融合在这个国家的其他任何地方都是不可能的。

===== Q=====
Malcolm, 你在非洲和中东与白皮肤穆斯林的接触是否让你感觉黑人与白人的融洽相处更为可能？

===== A=====
当我在朝圣时，我与一些在美国会被看作白人的穆斯林有密切接触，但这些穆斯林不叫他们自己“白人”，而是把他们自己看作是
人类大家庭的一部分，所以他们将这个大家庭的其他部分也视为家人。美国的白人身上则有一种不同的神态，不同的姿态，不同的态度。
我认为既然伊斯兰教能对那里的白人有这样的效果，如果美国白人能学习伊斯兰教，或许也能得到一些帮助。

===== Q=====
很多人感兴趣的是这次经历是否让你个人对白人的敌意有所改变……

===== A=====
我要表明一件事，不管我个人多受尊重，多被认可，只要同样的尊重和认可没有让每一个我们的人民都有切身感受，这种尊重对我就没有价值。

blog:datetime=2011/09/16 15:02:12:tags=Malcolm video

[[index|HOME]]   [[Work]]

<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="comment.js">
</script>
<noscript>Please enable !JavaScript to view the <a href="http://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>
<a href="http://disqus.com" class="dsq-brlink">blog comments powered by <span class="logo-disqus">Disqus</span></a>
<script type="text/javascript" src="count.js">
</script>
