%title MT2 review


=MT2 review=

- an oceanic flow balanced by pressure gradient and coriolis force. in the North Atlantic gyre, SA, NP, SP, IO, WWD
- The eastern boundary currents : broad shallow, slow, transport small amount of watter, diffuse boundary cold 
    The western boundary currents: narrow, deep, fast, trasport large amount ,sharp boundary, warm.
    CAUSE: coriolis force is strongest near poles, so the eastern currents flowing from high latitudes turn right sooner. coriolis non-existent 
    at equator, so the westward current does not turn right until reach the continent.
    The net flow of Ekman Transport is perpendicular to the wind. in Northen hemisphere, north wind alone west coast
    cause the Ekman trasport to go offshore, and the surface water is then replaced with deep water, which is often nutritious.
    Equatorial Upwelling. due to week coriolis force, the equatorial current was deflected north and south, replace with deep water.
- The movement of water due to difference in density. Over a thousand years. in the Arctic, through the channels in the submarine ridges 
    among Scorland, iceland, and greenland OR off the coast of Antarctica
    When seawater freeze at high latitudes, the salt got concentrated and from rigid brine, which sink and from deep water
    NADW forms when north wind cools down the North Atlantic.
----

- Shallow water wave: C = sqrt(g*d) or 3.1*sqrt(d)
- Deep water wave: C = sqrt(g*L/2*Pi) or C=1.251*sqrt(L)
- Move in circles. back and forward
| wave type                 | disturbing force                                     | typical wavelength             |
| wind wave                 | wind over ocean                                      | 60-150m                        |
| seiche                    | change in atomospheric pressure storm surge, tsunami | large func based on basin size |
| seismic sea wave(tsunami) | fauting of seafloor, volcanic eruption, landslide    | 200km                          |
| tide                      | gravitational attraction, rotation of Earth          | Half Earth's circumference     |

- The wave crest became peaked as it approaches the shore since its energy is packed into less water depth.
- the wave length : height --> 7:1(critical)form the surf line
- BREAK @ the spot where height : depth ~= 3:4
- When the wave approach the shore at an angle: refraction(headland)
- Waves with different *WL* bend(refraction) at different times, and thereforemay form complex interference patterns
- in case of a bay, : diffraction, radiation from the gap influence the water in the bay
 
----

- 800,000 / (1.251*sqrt(20)) ~= 40hr
- 4500/ 760 = 5.92
- 800,000 / 3.1*sqrt(4000) = 4080s ~= 1.13 hr

----

- amphidromic point is a point @ the center of ocean basin with no tide change
- The coriolis force cause the tide wave to flow toward the boundary of the basin and eventually circulate around the center, the crest and though cancel out at the center. earlier, in NOrthern hemisphere, the tidal crest  moves counter-clockwisely
- shallow water waves. When they are on the same line. the gravity of moon and sun coincide. 
# Safty, help avoid the sea bottom
# Provide a long time record of sea level
# Used in tsunami detection and strom surges, since they are more vicious with high tide

EASY : two surges, the one caused by gravity and the one by inertia

----
 
- Shore is where the ocean meets land, and Coast is the larger zone affected by the processes @ shore.
- It becomes steeper during winter due to sand loss. temporary,increase erosion on the side. smaller, bigger.
- 

blog:datetime=2011/10/26 16:08:50:tags=

