%title FINALREVIEW


=FINALREVIEW=

(important! MT 1,2, review questions!)
==List of topics==
(synthesis questions!)
- Photosynthesis, chemosynthesis (equations! where! definition!)
- primary productivity: def, where high? why? (the diagram wiith photosynthesis and respiration!)
- food webs, tropic efficiency(calculation!)
- deep sea(bioluminecence? use? defensive? offensive?)
- diel vertical migration.
- coral, atol formation (symbiosis, where, why)
- different kinds of communities(def of habitat, comunity, ,..)(why is A somewhere??)
- MAPS!!

===carbon===
- major reactions: (abiotic, biotic, )
- abiotic: CO2 + H2O --> H2CO3 --> H+ HCO3- --> 2H+ CO3(2-) (They are DIC!!)(review *that diagram*)
- abiotic: !CaCO3 ---> Ca 2+  CO3 2-
- biotic: photosynthesis: CO2 + H2O --> (CH2O) + O2
- biotic: respiration : (CH2O) + O2 --> CO2 + H2O
- biotic: precipitation: 2 HCO3- + Ca 2+ --> !CaCO3 + H2O + CO2
- solubility product: Ksb =/>/< c(HCO3-)*c(CO3 2-)
- deep in ocean : undersaturated, surface, supersaturated. (CSD : saturation depth)
- CCD: compensation depth: the depth at which the settling rate equals the disolution depth(below CSD)
- *the diagram with carbon reservoirs !!!* PIC, POC, DIC, DOC...

===waves===
- types of waves: capilary , wind waves, tsunami, tides...(review the diagram in book for dis/res force) 
- deep water wave: determined by wavelength; shallow water wave: dependent on depth.
            
===gyres===
- review figure 9.88 238 !!
- surfave vs. thermohaline (draw them!!)
- upwelling vs. downselling (ekman transport!!)
- coriolis force! hadly ferral polar cells!
- wind directions! (east wind come from east)
- residence time (equation!)
- thermal/pycnocline! review the *diagram*! (notice difference between different lattitudes!)
- 1 deg latt = 110 km  ; 1 deg long = 110 * cos(latt)km (*REMEMBER*)
===tectontics===
- 3.10, layers of composition!
- *types of boundaries !!(table 3.1)*

===pollutant===
- 3 characteristics!
- plastics!
- CO2 's influence on ocean's chemistry and biology

blog:datetime=2011/12/06 10:06:07:tags=REVIEW

[[index|HOME]]   [[Work]]

