%title lec1109


=lec1109=

# What are those seen on monday
# recap on primary production
# energy flow through the food web
# the ocean cycle thermo biotic
# carbon flux explorer video hourly variations of sedimentation

On monday, the "big thing" is sea louse.

In euphotic Zone, sufficient light. the lower bondary of euphotic zone is the compensation depth(70m)
The critical depth is where the integrated primary production == integrated primary production.

Nitrate concentration is almost zero near the surface of sea water. 
Deep mixing and upwelling bring high concentration of nutrients to surface
=====WHY?=====
# ocean is stratified 
# the upper layer is depleted with nutrients 
The organic matter sink to bottom. 
pH of surface water go up. pH of bottom water go down

====Upwelling(EKman)====
# coastlines
# equators
# poles(southern ocean)\

====Deep mixing====
Termperate and sub-polar regions
- winter
    -

====Primary production====
- more than 90% tiny phytoplankton in open ocean
- 2~5% Algae (seaweed near shore
- 1-2% chemo synthesis

Planktons are efficient, but gets eaten everyday.

===Recall===
# Energy flows through living systems(from some external source to primary producers to consumers and back
# matter is conserved (carbong and nutrients cycles)
# individuals in ecosystems respond to factors and forces that evolve over time.

=====Trophic levels=====
feeding relationships
1 mid sized fish consume 1000 times it's weight of plankton

===Ocean concepts===
- ocean is stratified in most locations(except polar seas).
- phytoplankton half of global photo synthesis
- ocean photosynthesis limited by light N P and trace elements(eg Fe)

The biologic pump transport CO2 into deep sea *FAST*
_IS it stable_

blog:datetime=2011/11/09 10:13:50:tags=

[[index|HOME]]   [[Work]]
