%title estuaries wetlands and SF bay


= estuaries wetlands and SF bay=

===How SF bay is formed===
During last glacial maximum, ice sheet on north America,low sea level.
shoreline extended farther.
The SF bay did not exist until the ice melt and sea level rose.

The sealevel became stable about 8 thousand years ago.

Drowned river mouth, and Tectonic estuary
===importance of estuaries===
Estuary:: a body of water where sea water and fresh water mix. semi-enclosed by land, ecologically important
Shellmount :: human created shell of mount(indication of civilization acient).
Salt marsh has high plant productivity.(protected from wave)

- Fister sediment from rivers
- act as a buffer zone to prevent flooding
- Drowned river mouth
    most common formed by sea level rise since the last ice age incursion of sea level into river 
- fjords
    Glaciers erode land in U-shaped throughs below sea level. Tned to be deep.
- bar-built
    Barrier islands or splits limit ocean water intrusion. Bery shallow, tned to be mixed by the wind
    typically low.
- Tectonic
    tectonic faulting or subsidence leads to coastal indentation. salt and freshwater mix in the basin.
===mixing senarios===
controled by tidal influence, freshwater flow, shape of estuary.
- salt wedge :: rapid freshwater flow, low-moderate tidal influence.(salt water is held back)
- well-mixed :: slow freshwater flow, moderate-high tiadal influence.
- partially mixed :: rapid freshwater flow, moderate-high tidal influence.
- fjord :: little tidal influence. rapid freshwater flow,(layer of salt water on floor)
======SF bay?======
- summer:wellmixed
- autunm:partially 
- winter: salt-wedge.
===the bay today===
The central valley water project: dams...-->>net loss of sedimentation

blog:datetime=2011/10/17 10:08:09:tags=

[[index|HOME]]   [[Work]]
