%title lec 928 Republic I II III


= lec 928 Republic II III=

# what is justicce itself?
# how do we benefit from justice itself?
# why is it better to be just than unjust?(the life of unjust seems better)
 
The answer need not about the consequences of justice.

First: he employed an analogy: Justice in the city.(There was no vocabulary for psychology 
to describe his arguments)
_Analogy_ : A is to B as C is to D
    justice -> person justice -> city ??
    Justice in the soul :: justice in the city
( some use this as a defence against the attacks of the implications of those political ideas
: this is not a treatise about political science, but personal morality)
( Bertrand Russell ... does not see this as a mere analogy)

Soractes did not give a definition of justice in the city, but gave an theoretical account of
its comming into exitstence( a generic theoretical account)

- the ecconomical beginning of city ( human are not self-sufficient) specialization of labor greatly improves productivity.(explains why organized individuals are more effcient)
- Why is there specialization? A: human nature dictates that for each individual there is only one craft that he is best at doing. a major assumption of human nature by Plato.
- Hence the exchange of goods is efficient.
- Simple Rural society: farmer, neccessary craftsman ( money, some inport, not much more...)(no culture refinements.)(the meaning of justice is unclear in this case)
- Lucirious city -> expanding -> war
- Need a class of people specialize on war.(two properties: *spirited* and *gentle*)(analogy to dogs)
- Dogs are philosophical animals: they learn the things they do not know
- Thumos = spiritness and gentleness
- The education: physical and musical.
- physical education is clear...
- musical education: education in all the things given by the muses: drama, science, letters ...
- To construct a truly idea city, we must sensor the thins people are exposed to in order to provide good education.
- The stories: should not give bad examples for people(people's mind will imitate the thing it knows') should not hear stories in which human or god have desire to succumb to immoral behaviors.
- The form in wich peopel should receive the content: certain rythms relate to certian characteristic. 
- The aim is to mold the character of the young so the emotions and feeling are conditioned that they will have a feeling of what is good or bad. (to be able to judge without rationality)
- NOTE: this is not philosophical education.

blog:datetime=2011/09/28 12:07:55:tags=notes

[[index|HOME]]   [[Work]]

