%title Jan 26 lecture(high renaissance)


=Jan 26 lecture(high renaissance and crisis)=

    An art history paper: describe objects! 
    What is a good art history argument?
    (comparison and contrast: similarity and disimilarity)
    (past - present)

FLorence --> Vantican
formal motifs: arch, columns,(classical past)

_St.sebastian_ (linking the Christian history to the classical tradition(Roman):
    Authority(linked to an imaginary connection to the past), permanance

_David_ (Micheal...) For Florentines in 1500s, David (young, weak) overcoming the strong resemble the city.
1504, moved to the Palazzo Florence from the cathedral
Usefulness: weakness, nakedness (fluidity: symbolize a larger community, not set in
a certain social position)

_Judith and Holofernes_: (weak overcoming the powerful)(replaced by _David_)(the
scene of a women slaughtering man made citizens uncomfortable)

_Apollo Belcedere_: (Collection of Pope Julius II, discovered 1489/93)

_Athen academy_ 

Sistine Cieling: (interplay of surface quality and the content(window))
The nude figures one the "building": decorations, (living sculpture), Structural!)(do not have
to bear the semantic meaning, relatively autonomus)(marginal experimentation: where innovation takes place)
Dissection!
Seduction: same figures in the same graph.
flood: internally complex, variation and human body,(drowned people)
(promise of salvation)
Artists as craftperson change with time(internal reception of art)
Michealanelgo: learning during the project.
(In _drunk noah_ there are some details missed on the ground (working with tonality(darker tone sub
ordinates)))(fresco highly resistent little change)
(near the end, at the begin of time, the decorative figures gets more complex, more unstable.
Michealanelgo : learn through painting. Sistine: exceeed thd requirement.

==The last Judgement==
groups of figures in air: do not depend on perspective.
(a sense of struggle: resides in body vs. body)

_Laocoon_ : human agony, incontrast with Apollo Belcedere 

blog:datetime=2012/01/26 09:39:58:tags=

[[index|HOME]]   [[Work]]
